==================================
Python + MongoDB = PyMongo Package
==================================
:Info: See `the mongo site <http://www.mongodb.org>`_ for more information. See `github <http://github.com/mongodb/mongo-python-driver/tree>`_ for the latest source.
:Author: Mike Dirolf
:Maintainer: Bernie Hackett <bernie@10gen.com>

About
=====

The PyMongo distribution contains tools for interacting with MongoDB
database from Python.  The ``bson`` package is an implementation of
the `BSON format <http://bsonspec.org>`_ for Python. The ``pymongo``
package is a native Python driver for MongoDB. The ``gridfs`` package
is a `gridfs
<http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/GridFS+Specification>`_
implementation on top of ``pymongo``.

Issues / Questions / Feedback
=============================

Any issues with, questions about, or feedback for PyMongo should be
sent to the mongodb-user list on Google Groups. For confirmed issues
or feature requests, open a case on `jira
<http://jira.mongodb.org>`_. Please do not e-mail any of the PyMongo
developers directly with issues or questions - you're more likely to
get an answer on the list.

Installation
============

If you have `setuptools
<http://peak.telecommunity.com/DevCenter/setuptools>`_ installed you
should be able to do **easy_install pymongo** to install
PyMongo. Otherwise you can download the project source and do **python
setup.py install** to install.

Dependencies
============

The PyMongo distribution is supported and tested on Python 2.x, where
x >= 4. PyMongo versions <= 1.3 also supported Python 2.3, but that is
no longer supported. If you need to use Python 2.3 please contact us.

Additional dependencies are:

- (to generate documentation) sphinx_
- (to auto-discover tests) `nose <http://somethingaboutorange.com/mrl/projects/nose/>`_


Documentation
=============

You will need sphinx_ installed to generate the
documentation. Documentation can be generated by running **python
setup.py doc**. Generated documentation can be found in the
*doc/build/html/* directory.

Testing
=======

The easiest way to run the tests is to install `nose
<http://somethingaboutorange.com/mrl/projects/nose/>`_ (**easy_install
nose**) and run **nosetests** or **python setup.py test** in the root
of the distribution. Tests are located in the *test/* directory.

.. _sphinx: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/
